---
authors:
  - me
date: 2024-01-28
categories:
  - ANISE
  - SPICE
  - Python
  - Rust
readtime: 2
links:
  - docs/anise/index.md
---

# ANISE - version 0.3.0

After nearly two years of dedicated development, I am proud to announce the release of [ANISE version 0.3.0](https://github.com/nyx-space/anise/discussions/189), a significant milestone in our journey to reimagine SPICE with modern capabilities. This latest version, available in both Rust and Python, marks a new era in astrodynamics computations, embodying our commitment to open-source innovation.

To facilitate your journey with ANISE, I have prepared comprehensive tutorials, which you can find directly on this website. For an enhanced learning experience, I recommend viewing these tutorials on Github. Designed with practical goals and exercises, they are tailored to help you seamlessly integrate ANISE into your Python-based projects.

For in-depth information on the validation of this toolkit, please visit the dedicated ANISE page on our website. It's crucial to us that our users have confidence in the reliability and accuracy of ANISE.

As of this publication, I am actively addressing three known bugs in ANISE. I encourage you to track our progress and contribute on Github. Transparency and community collaboration are cornerstones of our development process.

ANISE's deployment in mission-critical analysis underscores its robustness and reliability. I am committed to prompt maintenance, ensuring that any reported bugs are swiftly resolved. I invite you to incorporate ANISE into your projects, and <a href="https://7ug5imdtt8v.typeform.com/to/neFvVW3p" target="_blank">I am personally available</a> to assist with feature requests or guidance on using the toolkit. Your feedback and experiences are invaluable to us, and I eagerly anticipate your thoughts and contributions to the ANISE community.
